---
layout: post
title:  "Seeing how People Think about Making Machines Think they Think"
---
Observing how researchers try to guide the output of autoregressive language models into thouhgt like patterns
is fascinating. This ist the first of a series of posts in which I'll briefly address the ( for me ) most visible papers that trace recent developments.

Curiously most of these deal with topics on the very top of the abstraction stack, they deal with how to /feed text into the machine/ 
and not with gritty details of model and training. 

# Chain-of-Thought (CoT) Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models

Rule of thumb is that everything that gets its own well reknown acronym is at least influential and by the amount of 
references you see to the CoT paper by _Wei et. al_ of Google Brain, this one most certainly is.  

The probably best and most condensed summary of CoT can be taken directly  form the papers abstract [^1]:  
> generating a chain of thought - a series of intermediate reasoning
steps - signiﬁcantly improves the ability of large language models to perform
complex reasoning

The rest of the publication addresses _how_ a language model can be induced to create such chains of thought and 
to establish the fact that the claim of the abstract is indeed valid.

Mainly _Wei et al._ observe that for large language models (LLMs) including a few examples into the prompt that demonstrate how to decompose to 
the problem type under consideration enables sufficiently large models to:
1.  perform a similar decomposition for a previously unseen problem 
2. this decomposition being part of the output improves the success in benchmarks  in particular the [BIG-Bench](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.04615)

### Fazit
The approach is brilliant in its simplicity, no finetuning is needed and the performance of many models can be greatly improved
at the cost of sacrificing a few tokens of context window.

The only small issue I have with the paper is that along the lines it is claimed that chain-of-thought prompting 
is emergent with respect to model size. The shown plots don't discurrage that statement, but IMHO are not enough to confidently make that claim.


[^1]: How unusual! 
